AWS Notes
"Invention requires two things:
1. The ability to try a lot of experiments, and
2. not having to live with the collateral damage of failed experiments"
-Andy Jassy CEO AWS

AWS This Week - subscribe to be updated in AWS...

A Region is a geographical area. Each Region consists of 2 or more Availability Zones.
An Availability Zone(AZ) is simply a Data Canter.

Edge Locations are endpoint for AWS which are used for caching content. Typically this consists of CloudFront, Amazon's Content Delivery Network(CDN)
There are many more Edge Locations than Regions.

Exam Tips
	Understand the difference between a region, an Availability Zone, and an Edge Location
	-A Region is a physical location in the world which consists of two or more Availability Zones
	-An AZ is one or more discrete data centers, each with redundant power, networking and connectivity, housed in separate facilities
	-Edge Locations are endpoints for AWS which are used for caching content. Typically this consists of CloudFront, Amazon's Content Delivery Network
	
AWS Services
	Compute Services
		EC2
			Elastic Cloud Compute, virtual machines
		EC2 Container Service
			is a container management service that supports Docker containers
		Elastic Beanstalk
			AWS Elastic Beanstalk is an orchestration service offered from Amazon Web Services for deploying infrastructure which orchestrates various AWS services, including EC2, S3, Simple Notification Service (SNS), CloudWatch, autoscaling, and Elastic Load Balancers.
		Lambda
			is an event-driven, serverless computing platform provided by Amazon as a part of the Amazon Web Services. It is a compute service that runs code in response to events and automatically manages the compute resources required by that code.
		Lightsail
			Lightsail is designed to be the easiest way to launch and manage a virtual private server with AWS
		Batch
			used for batch computing in the cloud
		
	Storage Services
		S3
			Simple Storage Services
		EFS
			Elastic File System
		Glacier
			for Data Archival
		Snowball
			if you have a lot of data, write in to a disk and send to AWS to import manually
		Storage Gateway
			virual appliances, install in your datacenter and this will replicate the data in S3

	Databases Services
		RDS
			Relational Database Services
		DynamoDB
			For non relational DB
		Elasticache
			caching..
		Red Shift
			For data warehousing
			
	Migration Services
		AWS Migration Hub
			for tracking your application when migrating to AWS
		Application Discovery Service
			for analyzing your application, and identifying dependencies
		Database Migration Service
			for visualizing migration
		Server Migration Service
			for tracking also
		Snowball
		
	Networking and Content Delivery
		VPC
			Virtual Private Cloud, think of it as a virtual data centers...
		CloudFront
			Content Delivery management
		Route53
			DNS
		API Gateway
			is essentially a way of creating your own API for your services to communicate
		Direct Connect
			for running dedicated line

	Developer Tools
		CodeStar
			for collaborating with other devs on same project
		CodeCommit
			source control service
		CodeBuild
			builing, compiling and running tests
		CodeDeploy
			for deploying your code
		CodePipeline
			Continuous delivery service
		X-Ray
			for debugging your server-less application
		Cloud9
			IDE
		
	Management Tools
		CloudWatch
			Monitoring Services, SysOps bread and butter exam
		CloudFormation
			way of scripting infrastructure. turning your infrastructure into code
		CloudTrail
			used to logs changes to AWS environment
		Config
			monitors the configuration of your AWS
		OpsWorks
			way of automating your environment
		Service Catalog
			a way of managing catalog services
		Systems Manager
			an interface for managing your resources
		Trusted Advisor
			will give you advices, cool
		Managed Services
			
	Media Services
		Elastic Transcoder
		MediaConvert
		MediaLive
		MediaPackage
		MediaStore
		MediaTailer

	Machine Learning
		SageMaker
			for deep learning
		Comprehend
			for sentiment analysis
		DeepLens
			artificially aware camera, hardware that you can buy
		Lex
			powers amazon alexa services, chatbot
		Machine Learning
			for predicting
		Polly
			takes text into speech
		Rekognition
			for knowing what is in the file
		Amazon Translate
			just like Google translate
		Amazon Transcribe
			automatic speech recognition
			
	Analytics
		Athena
			allows you to run SQL queries in your S3 bucket, cool
		EMR
			elastic map reduce, for processing large amount of data.. for big data
		CloudSearch
		ElasticSearch Service
		Kinesis
		Kinesis Video Streams
		QuickSight
			BI tool
		Data Pipeline
			a way of moving your data in different data services
		Glue
			used for ETL
		
	Security & Identity & Compliance
		IAM
			Identity and Access Management
		Cognito
			for device authentication
		GuardDuty
			monitors malicious activities
		Inspector
			for identifying security vulnerabilities
		Macie
			will scan S3, and scans for PII(Personal Identifiable Information)
		Certificate Manager
			for managing ssl certs
		CloudHSM
			Hardware Security Module, 
		Directory Service
			a way of integrating microsoft active directory with AWS
		WAF
			Web Application Firewall
		Shield
			helps prevent DDoS
		Artifact
			service organization control, way of downloading and inspecting amazon documentation
		
	Mobile Services
		Mobile Hub
			management console
		Pinpoint
			way of using targeted push notifications to drive mobile engagement
		AWS AppSync
			updates data in web and mobile appl
		Device Farm
			a way of testing your devices in other platforms
		Mobile Analytics
		
	AR/VR
		Sumerian
		
	Application Integration
		Step Function
			managing lambda functions
		Amazon MQ
			message queues, like rabbit mq
		SNS
			notification service
		SQS
			decoupling??
		SWF
			simple workflow service, creates a simple workflow jobs
		
	Customer Engagement
		Connect
		Simple Email Service

	Business Productivity
		Alexa For Business
		Chime
			for video conferencing
		Work Docs
			like a dropbox
		WorkMail
			like office 365

	Desktop and App Streaming
		Workspaces
			VDI(virtual desktop infrastructure)
		AppStream 2.0
			like citrix

	IOT
		iOT
		iOT Device Management
		Amazon FreeRTOS
			OS for your microcontrollers
		Greengrass
 
	Game Development
		GameLift

	
IAM 101
	essentially, it allowas you to manage users and their level of access to the AWS Console. 
	-centralised control of your AWS account
	-Shared Access to your AWS Account
	-Granular Permissions
	-Identity Federation(including Active Directory, Facebook, Linkedin etc)
	-Multifactor Authentication
	-Provide temporary access for users/devices and services where necessary
	-Allows you to setup your own password rotation policy
	-Integrates with many different AWS services
	-Supports PCI DSS Compliance
	
	Critical Terms
		Users - End Users
		Groups - A collection of users under one set of permissions.
		Roles - You create roles and can then assign them to AWS resources.
		Policies - a document that defines one or more permissions
		
	root account
		the email address you use to signon
	
	
		
S3 101
	Simple Storage Service
	S3 is object based not block based
	files can be from 0 bytes to 5TB
	there is unlimited storage
	files are stored in buckets(folder)
	S3 is a universal namespace, that is, names must be unique globally
	https://s3-eu-west-1.amazonaws.com/bucketName
	
	Data Consistency Model for S3
		read after write consistency for PUTS of new objects
		eventual consistency for overwrite PUTS and DELETES(can take some time to propagate)
	
	S3 is a simple key, value store
		S3 is Object based, consists of:
			key - this is simply the name of the object(lexicographical)
			value - this is simply the data in bytes
			versionId - for versioning
			metadata - data about the data
			subresources
				access control lists
				torrent
	
	S3 - The Basics
		99.99% availability for the S3 platform.
		amazon guarantee 99.9 availability
		11 x 9s durability for S3 information
		tiered storage available
		lifecycle management
		versioning
		encryption
		secure your data using Access Control Lists and Bucket Policies
		
	S3 - Storage Tiers/Classes
		S3 - 99.99% availability, 11x9s durability. designed to sustain the loss of 2 facilities concurrently
		S3-IA(Infrequently Accessed) - for data that is accessed less frequently, but required rapid access when needed. Lower fee than S3, but you are charged a retrieval fee.
		RRS(Reduced Redundancy Storage) - Designed to provide 99.99% durability and 99.99% availability of objects over a given year.
		Glacier - very cheap, but used for archival only. It takes 3-5 hours to restore from Glacier.
		
	S3 - Charges
		Storage size
		Requests
		Storage management pricing
		Data Transfer Pricing
		Trasfer Acceleration
			enables fast, easy, and secure transfer of files over long distances between your end users and S3 bucket. Transfer Acceleration takes advantage of Amazon CloudFront's globally distributed edge locations. As the data arrives at an edge location, data is routed to Amazon S3 over an optimized network path.
	
	
		
	Reviews for Storage Classes/Tiers
		S3 - Durable, immediately available, frequently accessed
		S3-IA - Durable, immediately available, infrequently accessed
		S3 RRS - data that is easily reproducible, such as thumb nails etc.
		Glacier - archived data, where you can wait 3-5 hours before accessing
		
	Read the S3 FAQ before taking the exam. It comes up A LOT!

	
	Create an S3 Bucket - Exam tips
		Buckets are a universal name space
		upload an object to S3 receive a HTTP 200 code
		S3, S3-IA, S3 Reduced Redundancy Storage
		Encryption
			client side encryption
			server side encryption
				server side encryption with Amazon S3 Managed Keys(SSE-S3)
				server side encryption with KMS(SSE-KMS)
				server side encryption with customer provided keys(SSE-C)
		Control access to buckets using either a bucket ACL or using Bucket Policies
		By default, buckets are private and all objects stored inside them are private
			
		
	S3 - Versioning Lab, Exam tips
		stores all version of an object(including all writes and even if you delete an object)
		great backup tool
		once enabled, versioning cannot be disabled, only suspended.
		integrates with lifecycle rules
		versioning's MFA delete capability, which uses multi-factor authentication, can be used to provide an additional layer of security
		
	
	S3 - Cross Region Replication exam tips
		versioning must be enabled on both the source and destination buckets
		regions must be unique
		files in an existing bucket are not replicated automatically. all subsequent updated files will be replicated automatically.
		you cannot replicate to multiple buckets or use daisy chaining(at this time)
		delete markers are replicated
		deleting individual versions or delete markers will not be replicated
		understand what cross region replication is at a high level
		
	Lifecycle Management, S3-IA and Glacier Lab
		can be used in conjunction with versioning
		can be applied to current versions and previous versions.
		following actions can now be done:
			transition to the Standard-IA storage class (128KB and 30 days after the creation date)
			archive to the glacier storage class(30 days after IA, if relevant)
			permanently delete
		
	CloudFront CDN Review
		CDN - Content Delivery network is a system of distributed servers(network) that deliver webpages and other web content to a user based on the geographic locations of the user, the origin of the webpage and a content delivery server.
		
		CloudFront Key Terminology/Exam Tips
			Edge Location - this is the location where content will be cached. This is separate to an AWS Region/AZ
			Origin - this is the origin of all the files that the CDN will distribute. This can be either an S3 Bucket, EC2 Instance, an Elastic Load Balancer or Route53
			Distribution - this is the name given the CDN which consists of a collection of edge locations
				Web Distribution - typically used for websites
				RTMP - Used for Media Streaming
			
			Edge locations are not just READ only, you can write to them too.(i.e. put an object on to them).
			Objects are cached for the life of the TTL(Time To Live).
			You can clear cached objects, but you will be charged.
			
		Amazon CloudFront can be used to deliver your entire website, including dynamic, static, streaming, and interactive content using a global network of edge locations. Requests for your content are automatically routed to the nearest edge location, so content is delivered with the best possible performance.
		
		Amazon CloudFront is optimized to work with other Amazon Web Services S3, EC2, ELB,and Route53. Amazon CloudFront also works seamlessly with any non-AWS origin server, which stores the original, definitive versions of your files.
	
	Security and Encryption
		Securing your buckets
			by default all newly created buckets are Private
			you can setup access control to your buckets using:
				bucket policies
				access control lists
			S3 buuckets can be configured to create access logs which log all requests made to the S3 bucket. This can be done with another bucket.
		Encryption
			In Transit
				SSL/TLS
			Data at rest
				Server Side Encryption
					S3 Managed Keys - SSE-S3
					AWS Key Management Service, Managed Keys - SSE-KMS
					Server side encryption with customer provided keys - SSE-C
				Client Side Encryption	
					
	Storage Gateway
		it is a service that connects an on-premises software appliance with cloud-based storage to provide seamless and secure integration between an onganization's on-premises IT environment and AWS's storage infrastructure. The service enables you to securely sotre data to the AWS cloud for scalable and cost-effective storage.
		its software appliance is available for download as a virtual machine image that you install on a host in your data center. Storage gateway supports either VMWAre ESXi or Microsoft Hyper-V. Once you/ve installed your gateway and associated it with your AWS account through the activation process, you can use the AWS management console to create the storage gateway option that is right for you.
		
		4 types of storage gateways
			File Gateway(NFS)
				for flat files
			Volumes Gateway(iSCSI)-block based
				stored volumes
				cached volumes
			Tape Gateway(VTL)-for backup and archiving
			
		File Gateway
			files are stored as objects in your S3 buckets, accessed through a Network File System(NFS) mount point. Ownership, permissions, and timestamps are durably stored in S3 in the user-metadata of the object associated with the file. Once objects are transferred to S3, they can be managed as native S3 objects, and bucket policies such as versioning, lifecycle management, and cross-region replication apply directly to objects stored in your bucket.
			
		Volume Gateway
			the volume interface presents your applications with disk volumens using the iSCSI block protocol.
			Data written to these volumes can be asynchronously backed up as point-in-time snapshots of your volumes, and stored in the cloud as Amazon EBS snapshots.
			Snapshot storage is also compressed to minimize your storage charges.
			Stored Volumes let you store your primary data locally, while asynchronously backing up that data to AWS. Stored volumes provide your on-premises applications with low-latency access to their entire datasets, while providing durable, off-site backups. You can create storage volumes and mount them as iSCSI devices from your on-premises application servers. Data written to your stored volumes is stored on your on-premises storage hardware. This data is asynchronously backed up to Amazon S3 in the form of Amazon Elastic Block Store(EBS) snapshots. 1GB-16TB in size for Stored Volumes.
			Cached volumes let you use S3 as your primary data storage while retaining frequently accessed data locally in you storage gateway. Cached volumes minimize the need to scale your on-premises storage infrastructure, while still providing your applications with low-latency access to their frequently accessed data. You can create storage volumes up to 32 TB in size and attach to them as iSCSI devices from your on-premises application servers. Your gateway stores data that you write to thse volumes in S3 and retains recently read data in your on-premises storage gateway's cache and upload buffer storage. 1GB - 32TB in size for Cached volumes.
			Tape Gateway offers a durable, cost-effective solution to archive your data in the AWS. The VTL interface it provides lets you leverage your existing tape-based backup application infrastructure to store data on virtual tape cartridges that you create on your tape gateway. Ecah tape gateway is preconfigured with a media changer and tape drives, which are available to your existing client backup applications as iSCSI devices. You add tape cartridges as you need to archive your data. Supported by NetBackup, Backup Exec, Veeam etc.
					
	Snowball
		In the past, there is Import/Export Disk
			AWS Import/Export Disk accelerates moving large amounts of data into and aout of the AWS cloud using portable storage devices for transport. Aws Import/Export Disk transfers your data directly onto and off to storage devices using Amazon's high-speed internal network and bypassing the Internet. And now, Snowballs:
		Snowball, Snowball Edge, Snowmobile
		Snowball
			is a petabyte-scale data transport solution that uses secure appliances to transfer large amounts of dta into and out of AWS. Using Snowball addresses common challenges with large-scale data transfers including high network costs, long transfer times, and security concerns. Transferring data with Snowball is simple, fast, secure, and can be as little as one-fifth the cost of high-speed internet. 
			80TB snowball in all regions. Snowball uses multiple layers of security designed to protect your data including tamper-resistant enclosures, 256-bit encryption, and an industry-standard Trusted Platform Module(TPM) designed to ensure both security and full chain-of-custody of your data. Once the data transfer job has been processed and verified, AWS performs a software erasure of the Snowball appliance.
		Snowball Edge
			AWS Snowball Edge is a 100TB data transfer device with on-board storage and compute capabilities. YOu can uses Snowball Edge to move large amounts of data into and out of AWS, as a temporary storage tier for large local datasets, or to support local workloads in remote or offline locations.
			Snowball Edge connects to your existing applications and infrastructure using standard storage interfaces, streamlining the data transfer process and minimizing setup and integration. Snowball Edge can cluster together to form a local storage tier and process your data on-premises, helping ensure your applications continue to run even when they are not able to access the cloud. 
		Snowmobile
			is an Exabyte-scale data transfer service used to move extremely large amounts of data to AWS. You can transfer up to 100PB per Snowmobile, a 45-foot long ruggedized shipping container, pulled by a semi-trailer truck. Snowmobile makes it easy to move massive volumes of data to the cloud, including video libraries, image repositories, or even a complete data center migration. Transferring data with Snowmobile is secure, fast, and cost effective.
		Exam Tips
			Understand what Snowball is
			Understand what Import Export is
			Snowball Can
				Import to S3
				Export from S3
	
	S3 Transfer Acceleration
		It utilizes the CloudFront Edge Network to accelerate your uploads to S3. Instead of uploading directly to your S3 bucket, you can use a distinct URL to upload directly to an edge location which will then transfer that file to S3. You will get a distinct URL to upload to;

	S3 Static Website hosting				
		endpoint pattern: http://<bucketname>.s3-website-<region>.amazonaws.com
		sample: http://patwebsite.s3-website-us-east-1.amazonaws.com

	Storage Summary
		S3 101
		S3 Versioning
		S3 Lifecycle Management
		CloudFront
		Securing your Buckets
		
					

EC2
	EC2 101
		Amazon Elastic Compute Cloud is a web service that provides resizable compute capacity in the cloud. Amazon EC2 reduces the time required to obtain and boot new server instances to minutes, allowing you to completely scale capacity, both up and down, as your computing requirements change. 
		EC2 Options
			On Demand - allows you to pay a fixed rate by the hour (or by the second) with no commitment.
      	Reserved - provides you with a capacity reservation, and offer a significant discount on the hourly charge for an instance. 1 Year or 3 Year Terms.
      	Spot - Enables you to bid whatever price you want for instance capacity, providing for even greater savings if your applications have flexible start and end times.
      	Dedicated Hosts - Physical EC2 server dedicated for your use. Dedicated Hosts can help you reduce costs by allowing you to use your existing server-bound software licenses.
     	
		Use Cases
     		On Demand
				Perfect for users that want the low cost and flexibility of EC2 without any up-front payment of long-term commitment.
				Applications with short term, spiky, or unpredictable workloads that cannot be interrupted.
				Applications being developed or tested on EC2 for the first time.
     		Reserved Instances
				Applications with steady state or predictable usage.
				Applications that require reserved capacity
				Users can make up-front payments to reduce their total computing costs even further.
					Standard RIs (Up to 75% off on-demand)
					Convertible RIs (64% off on-demand) feature the capability to change the attributes of the RI as long as the exchanged results in the creation of Reserved Instances of equal or grater value.
					Scheduled RIs are available to launch within the time window you reserve. recurring schedule that only requires a fraction of a day, a week, or a month.
			Spot Instances
				Applications that have flexible start and end times
				Applications that are only feasible at very low compute prices
				Users with an urgent need for large amount of additional computing capacity
			Dedicated Hosts
				Useful for regulatory requirements that may not support multi-tenant virtualization.
				Great for licensing which does not support multi-tenancy or cloud deployments.
				Can be purchased On-Demand (hourly).
				Can be purchased as a Reservation for up to 70% off the On-Demand price.
			
			Instance Types
				F1 - Field Programmable Gate Array
				I3 - High Speed Storage
				G3 - Graphics Intensive
				H1 - High Disk Throughput
				T2 - Lower Cost, General Purpose
				D2 - Dense Storage
				R4 - Memory Optimized
				M5 - General Purpose
				C5 - Compute Optimized
				P3 - Graphics/General Purpose GPU
				X1 - Memory Optimized
				The numbers are for generation, 
			
			EBS
				Amazon EBS allows you to create storage volumes and attach them to EC2 instances. Once attached, you can create a file system on top of these volumes, run a database, or use them in any other way you would use a block device. EBS volumes are placed in a specific AZ, where they are automatically replicated to protect you from the failure of a single component.
			IOPS - Input/otuputoperations per second
			EBS Volume Types
				SSD- General Purpose SSD(GP2)
					General purpose, balances both price and performance.
					Ratio of 3 IOPS per GB with up to 10,000 IOPS and the ability to burst up to 3000 IOPS for extended periods of time for volumes at 3334 GiB and above.
				SSD-Provisioned IOPS SSD(IO1)
					Designed for I/O intensive applications such as large relational or NoSQL databases.	
					Use if you need more than 10,000 IOPS.
					Can provision up to 20,000 IOPS.
				HDD-Throughput Optimized HDD(ST1)
					Big data
					Data warehouses
					log processing
					cannot be a boot volume
				HDD-Cold HDD(SC1)
					Lowest Cost storage for infrequently accessed workloads
					File Server
					Cannot be a boot volume
				Magnetic (Standard)
					Lowest cost per gigabyte of all EBS volume types that is bootable. Magnetic volumes are ideal for workloads where data is accessed infrequently, and applications where the lowest storage cost is important.
			
		EC2 Exam Tips
			Pricing models
				On Demand
				Reserved
				Spot
				Dedicated Hosts
				
				If  a Spot instance is terminated by Amazon EC2, you will not be charged for a partial hour of usage. However, if you terminate the instance yourself, you will be charged for the complete hour in which the instance ran.
			EBS
				SSD: General purpose SSD, Provisioned IOPS SSD
				Magnetic: Throughput Optimized HDD, Cold HDD, Magnetic
			
	EC2 Launching
		In Step3>Advanced Details>User data
			Bootstrap scripts
		Tags, helpful for tracking costs
		Security Groups - are virtual firewalls
		System Status Checks - just checking 
			
		Monitoring
			Basic Monitoring - every 5 mins
			Detailed Monitoring - every 1 min
		
		Termination Protection is turned off by default
		On an EBS-backed instance, the default actions is for the root EBS volume to be deleted when the instance is terminated
		EBS Root Volumes of your DEFAULT AMI's cannot be encrypted. You can also use a third party tool (such as bit locker etc) to encrypt the root volume, or this can be done when creating AMI's in the AWS console or using the API.
		Additional volumes can be encrypted
		
		
	Security Groups
		Security group is a virtual firewall
		Any rule applied to security group will be applied immediately
		Are stateful, adding an inbound rule will automatically adds an outbound rule
		You can't deny, only allow
		
		Review
			All Inbound traffic is blocked by defualt
			All Outbound traffic is Allowed
			Changes to Security Groups take effect immediately
			You can have any number of EC2 instances within a security group
			You can have multiple security groups attached to a single EC2 instance
			Security Groups are STATEFUL
				If you create an inbound rule allowing traffic in, that traffic is automatically allowed back out again.
			You cannot block specific IP addresses using Security Groups, instead use Network Access Control Lists
			
	Upgrading EBS Volume Types
		EBS volume can only be mounted on EC2 with the same Availability Zones
		Modifying EBS volumes attached to EC2 will have no downtime
		Standard volume type cannot be modified
		
		Volumes and Snapshots Review:
			Volumes exist on EBS
				Virtual Hard Disk
			Snapshots exist on S3
			Snapshots are point in time copies of Volumes
			Snapshots are incremental, this means that only the blcoks that have changed since your last snapshot are moved to S3.
		Snapshot of Root Device Volumes
			The first snapshot may take some time to create.
			To create a snapshot for EBS volumes that serve as root devices, you should stop the instance before taking the snapshot.
			However, you can take a snap while the instance is running.
			You can create AMI's for both Volumes and Snapshots
			You can change EBS volume sizes on the fly, including changing the size and storage type.
			Volumes will ALWAYS be in the same availability zone as the EC2 instance.
			To move an EC2 volume from one AZ/Region to another, take a snap or an image of it, then copy it to the new AZ/Region
		Volumes vs Snapshots - Security	
			Snapshots of encrypted volumes are encrypted automatically.
			Volumes restored from encrypted snapshots are encrypteed automatically.
			You can share snapshots, but only if they are unencrypted.
				These snapshots can be shared with other AWAS accounts or made public
				
	RAID, Volumes & Snapshots
		RAID = Redundant Array of Independent Disks
			RAID 0 - Striped, No Redundancy, Good Performance
			RAID 1 - Mirrored, Redundancy
			RAID 5 - Good for reads, bad for writes, AWS does not recommend ever putting RAID 5's on EBS
			RAID 10 - Striped & Mirrored, Good Redundancy, Good Performance.
			
		How can I take a Snapshot of a RAID Array
			Problem - take a snapshot, the snapshot excludes data held in the cache by applications and the OS. This tends not to matter on a single volume, however using multiple volumes in a RAID array, this can be a problem due to interdependencies of the array.
			Solution - take an application consistent snapshot.
				Stop the applciation from writing to disk.
				Flush all caches to the disk.
				How?
					Freeze the file system and Unmount the RAID Array or
					Shutting down the associated EC2 instance.
					
		Snapshots of Root Device Volumes
			to create a snapshot for EBS volumes that serve as root devices, you should stop the instance before taking the snapshot.
		
		Volumes vs Snapshots - Security
			Snapshots of encrypted volumes are encrypted automatically.
			Volumes restored from encrypted snapshots are encrypted autotmatically.
			You can share snapshots, but only if they are unencrypted.
				These snapshots can be shared with other AWS accounts or made public
				
	AMI Types (EBS vs Instance Store)
		You can select your AMI based on:
			Region
			OS
			Architecture(32 or 64bit)
			Launch Permissions
			Storage for the Root Device(Root Device Volume)
				Instance Store(EPHEMERAL STORAGE)
				EBS Backed Volumes
		
		EBS vs Instance Store
			All AMIs are categorized as either backed by EBS or backed by instance store.
			For EBS Volumes: The root device for an instance launched from the AMI is an EBS volume created from an EBS Snapshot.
			For Instance Store Volumes: The root device for an instance launched from the AMI is an instance store volume created from a template stored in S3.
		
		Instance Store Volumes are sometimes called Ephemeral Storage.
		Instance Store volumes cannot be stopped. If the underlying host fails, you will lose all your data.
		EBS backed instances can be stopped. You will not lose the data on this instance if it is stopped.
		You can reboot both, you will not lose your data.
		By default, both ROOT volumes will be deleted on termination, however with EBS volumes, you can tell AWS to keep the root device volume
	
	Load Balancers and Health Check
		Elastic Load Balancers
			Instances monitored by ELB are reported as:
				InService, or OutOfService
			Health Checks check the instance health by talking to it
			Have their own DNS name. You are never given an IP address.
			Read the ELB FAQ for Classic Load Balancers
			
	Cloud Watch EC2
		Standard Monitoring is always 5 minutes
		Detailed Monitring is always 1 minute
		Dashboards - create dashboards to see what is happening with your AWS environment.
		Alarms - allows you to set Alarms that notify you when particular thresholds are hit.
		Events - helps you to respond to state changes in your AWS resources
		Logs - helps you to aggregate, monitor, and store logs.
		
		Metrics available to EC2 by Default
			CPU, Disk, Network, Status Check
		
		CloudWatch vs CloudTrail
			CloudWatch is for performance monitoring
			CloudTrail is for auditing
		
	AWS Command Line and EC2
	
	Using IAM Roles with EC2
		Roles are Global, not per region
		
	S3 CLI and Regions(cause S3 are per region)
		make it a habit to add the region flag when accessing the S3 on CLI
		
	Using Bootstrap Scripts
		Bash scripts can be add in advanced details during instance launching
	
	EC2 Instance Metadata
		to get the metadata:
			curl http://169.254.169.254/latest/meta-data
		to get the public ip address
			curl http://169.254.169.254/latest/meta-data/public-ipv4
			 
		
		
		
		
			
			